>> Steve Kinney: We are going to, like I
said, a few other mini tools will make
appearances, but we're going to talk
about two tools in particular today.
They are the hot ones right now, for
lack of a better term,
which is Cursor and Claude code.
We're going to look at some other ones
because there's a bunch of different
paradigms in which you
see these tools work.
If you're going to ask me
the question right now, which one,
I will tell you that I use both.
Cursor is if it looks like VS Code,
that's a decent thought.
It is effectively a fork of VS Code
insofar that if I think if you pull in
the GitHub extension and you try to
OAuth in to GitHub, it'll be like
would you like to give VS Code
permission to connect to GitHub, right?
So it is effectively
a superset-ish these days.
VS Code has increasingly more and
more of these features built into it.
But we'll use Cursor because I think it
is still the one that most people go to
for this.
A lot of this comes down to UX paradigms.
Cursor, what's really great about it
is you are, again, in your editor.
You've got that side panel that
kinda looks like ChatGPT, right?
In your code, you can kinda see
the changes it wants to make, accept and
you can highlight pieces of code and
ask to do things.
You kind of in there, right,
versus some other AI tools we see.
Sometimes it's like go off and do a thing
and come back to me, like Deep Research or
OpenAI's Operator or
Codex, as we'll see later.
And so there's a lot of really
great things about having a kind of
an immersive experience.
Claude Code, on the other hand,
is a terminal app.
So all you vim users can rejoice and
it runs in your terminal and
kind of you're kind of again,
you're there, but
you're not necessarily in the code
at the same time as the agent is.
Again, there are advantages to that too,
because you're not tied to what thing
are you looking at at this moment either.
Now, which one do I use?
Well, Cursor is like
a VS Code kind of thing, and
Claude Code runs the terminal and
VS Code has a terminal built in.
The answer to which one I use
is yes to various degrees,
depending on what I want to do.
If it's like, hey, I'm staring at
a function that I need to refactor,
I'm probably doing it in Cursor.
If I've got, hey,
I need to change the arguments of every
iteration of this function
across the entire code base.
I'm probably doing that from cloud code.
There are other paradigms, as we'll see.
This is OpenAI's codex, which takes
a totally different approach to accomplish
the same thing, which is you point it at
a git repo and you tell it what you want.
You can chat with it a little bit, you can
see what it's thinking and then guide it.
And it comes up like, here's my plan and
you can kind of approve it or not.
And if you approve it,
it will open up a PR.
So now you're taking a different approach,
which is more of that traditional
code reviewer kind of piece where
you're commenting on the pull request.
And again, the answer is yes, right?
I mean, this is incredibly
powerful because if I have.
Because for a lot of these tools, we think
a lot of these in terms of generating
the code because that's
where we see the memes,
the people smiling with
money bags on YouTube.
But I think writing code is important.
But understanding code bases is
sometimes an interesting part too.
And all these tools a lot of times
understand they've indexed the entire code
base, they can get a sense of it.
And so for a tool like this, a lot of
times I'll have spent the day coding and
then I will walk away from
the computer as I promised my wife and
then I will pull out my phone and
I got some questions about the overall
architecture or some ideas.
I can kick some of these things off
remotely and then come back and
look at them in the morning, right?
So the answer of which one is
sometimes like it depends,
or yes, depending on how much kind
of firm pieces you want in there.
But quick disclaimer just to
kind of set expectations.
Best things in life are free.
These apparently are not
the best things in life.
So Cursor does have a free 14
day trial of the pro plan.
There's some other plans too, but
everything we care about today
is at least in the pro plan.
After you get moved down to the hobby
plan where you still have most kind
of purposely, we'll touch on
some of the things that are not
totally in the hobby plan,
but you just have less of it.
And then there's some other stuff that is
in the fancy plan, which is the stuff you
would never expect to be in a free plan
and you probably don't care about unless
you work in corporate it, which is SSO and
SAML and enterprise grade privacy and
all those which you should care about but
you don't care about right now with your
little fun project apps that
we're going to play with.
That said,
our buddy Claude Code on the other hand,
at this moment does not have a free plan.
Now, the way we're gonna handle today
is we're gonna talk about cursor first.
We are then gonna kind of have
a blended portion of the show and
then things that you could.
If you want to flip over to Claude Code
and get that experience too, you can,
you wanna stay in cursor, you can as well.
That said, if you wanna get a feel for
kind of the terminal-based approach,
Google has a Gemini CLI,
which other than missing a few
features which again might
very much have at some point.
As long as you have a Google account
is free within certain amounts too, and
so that will apply as well.
So if you wanna get a taste of that,
that is an option for you.
So there's various ways to
kind of play along with this.